General
-------

Add option in CMake for compiling static libraries.

Web REST API module - Flask?

Webserver Module

Qt Gui Module


Master
------

opendax gets all locked up when a module fails to start

Possibly need to allow the start_module() function to set the processes
environment before launching the module.

Need to have the start_module() function set a lesser UID for the module
before exec()ing the process.  What UID will opendax run as??
There is probably some 'setuid root' stuff.  I don't really want to do that
but it may be necessary to make sure that all the modules run as the opendax
user.

Fix the dead module queue to be dynamic so that if too many modules die at
once it won't fill up and the system can get cleaned up properly.

Set up the module restarting in the scan_modules() function.

Write the stop_module() function.

Add this stuff to the configuration...

  Modules
    Restart (Yes or No) whether to restart
    Reload (HUP or KILL) What signal ro reload a module (with KILL restart is implied)
    StdIO (Yes or No) whether to connect to the modules STDIN, STDOUT, STDERR
    nice Set kernel priorities.

Write the command structures for connecting two modules STDIO.  When the first module requests
to connect to STDIO it's STDOUT and STDERR are connected to the others STDIN and visa versa.
Any subsequent requests by other modules to connect will either block (???) or return error.

Tag Server
---------

_status tag can be written to by modules.  This should be read only.  This
will probably need to be a CDT of some kind too.

Allow 'nice' levels to be set for modules in the master

There is a bug in the event handling logic when multiple modules of the
same name are running.  Somewhere I'm using the name of the module to
identify it and the name is not forced to be unique.

There should be a hook for when a module reads the _status[] tag so that other parts of
the system should update the tag with the latest info.

Also need to remove events when modules are gone.

Test for adding events and maps to tag indexes that do not exist.

Add user authentication and tag access rights.

Add properties to tags...
  Timestamp
  Time To Live  ???
  Persistence Flag
  Quality Flag(s)
  Alarm Flags(s)  ??? - Maybe a higher level thing with CDTs

Add this stuff to the configuration...

  Global
    Message Size??? (override the defaults that are found)
    Starting Database and Taglist sizes as well as increments #defines as defaults
    Network stuff
  

